# Game Engine Architecture
This document gives a summary of the book [Game Engine Architecture](https://aub-primo.hosted.exlibrisgroup.com:443/desktop:Samlet:AUB01_ALEPH002011881) by Jason Gregory.

## Chapter 1: Introduction
This chapter introduces the art of game programming. It first discusses the different competances a game developer must possess and how a typical game studio is organized. Afterwards it discusses what a game is, underlining that video games can be classified as soft realtime system, and tries to draw the line between the game and the game engine. The most important take is that truly genre-agnostics game engines cannot exist and thus game studios will often want to make changes to existing multi-genre engine (Unity, Unreal etc) and states that a data-driven architecture is what differentiates game engines from game software. The next two sections first presents an overview of different genres and how they relate to different game engines, followed by a survey of popular game engines. Section 1.6 presents a game engine architecture consisting of multiple layers, underlining that calls between layers are only accepted from upper layers and downwards, i.e. the architecture is acyclic. This architecture is followed by a brief description of each layer. The final section of the chapter discusses asset creation tools and the asset conditioning pipeline. The asset conditioning pipeline is responsible for importing 3D models, audio etc and storing them in an asset database for use in the game. The asset conditioning pipelines may also include a world editor.

## Chapter 2: Tools of the trade